now it's all about stress-free cooking
cooking dishes in advance is a brilliant
way of taking the stress out of cooking
at home and many dishes just get better
and better with time
first up my amazing sticky pork ribs one
of the secrets the great cooking is
patience leaving dishes to marinade for
one or two days
helps to develop the flavor in your food
and the end result so much more
delicious it's a method I use in the
restaurant all the time
first off get your roasting tray put the
tray on the gas pork ribs 60% meat and
35 40 % fat give them a really good
season salt and pepper nice thing about
this cut they stay incredibly moist when
on the bone and the longer you cook them
the more delicious they become just push
for wet seasoning in to the pork olive
oil in make sure that trey is nice and
hot and I really want that nice sort of
Tamara zation taking place on the pork
that's the nice thing about starting it
on top of the stove use your ocean trait
get them colors and then the of them
putting the ribs straight in the oven
you don't get a color it looks sort of
boils as opposed to a nice caramelized
rib ginger you can't beat fresh ginger
with sticky pork ribs place it down nice
and firmly and slice thinly slice the
ginger the more fragrant the ribs
garlic
I was really important before you add
anything those ribs make sure you've got
a color in the ribs first and rush it
turn them over that's what I want a nice
crispy color a very sort of raised in
the oven all that color it turns into
the most amazing flavor braising is just
a chef's term for cooking something
slowly in liquid fights ginger and
garlic in spread it around on all those
ribs to sort of roast the ginger and the
garlic chili flakes chili flakes in next
Szechuan pepper citrusy vibrant
peppercorns incredible in next star anis
that gives it a really nice sort of
aniseed flavor almost like you're
roasting the ribs in fennel then now
we've got the heat with the spice I'll
sweeten things up a little bit some
fresh honey honey glazes the pork
beautifully counteracts against the left
spice in there but look what's happening
color on the ribs is extraordinary it's
like a really nice chili sweet caramel
now soy sauce brings that little but
it's sort of saltiness to it really
generous with a soy sauce Japanese
vinegar 2 tablespoons of vinegar in rice
wine it gives it that nice sort of
tartness the ribs if you can't find rice
wine a dry sherry is a great substitute
300 mil that takes out the heat for that
Szechuan pepper those dried chili flakes
make sure they all lay down like a nice
tight box of matches bring that up to
the boil cooking is all about learning
to develop your own likes and dislikes
so always keep tasting to make sure
you're happy with a combination of
flavors
slacking little touch of vinegar
well now sharpness now think what's
going on the tartness the heat the
caramel the color on the ribs is amazing
on a bit of a sort of oniony flavor we
put some springy music whilst these ribs
are in the oven the spring onions all
sort of puree they give a sharpest it's
the final taste of that pork in in my
spring onions in my stock 400 mil of
stock this is just a simple chicken
stock the stock just sits underneath the
ribs it absorbs into the rib and the top
of the rib glazes underneath the rib
that gets crispy and rich and that's
what makes the ribs nice and moist
really important into the oven
cook at 180 for 30 minutes then turn the
ribs over and cook for a further 30
minutes now Wow
they smell incredible each side has got
that really nice crispy roasted edge
becomes sticky and chewy and sweet sour
the fats disappeared and the pork just
melts in your mouth I want to take them
to the next level gasps back on now
shake the tray and this is the sort of
the way that we finish them in the
restaurant but every minute
they'd laze in that tray they just get
to taste better and better now look at
them
I'm so happy with us ribs done
absolutely delicious now but if you want
you can put them in the fridge and the
flavor will keep developing then just
reheat them or you want to serve so
these where it has a nice slice of
ginger on there Wow look at that
delicious sticky ribs with an amazing
marinade
to make my food the tastiest they can be
I always start with the best ingredients
I can find and the secret to getting the
best is simple knowledge is crucial the
more you know about where your
ingredients come from and how they
produce the better so ask lots of
questions and learn when it comes to
buying pork you can't do any better than
ask a butcher and award-winning master
butcher Danny Lydgate knows everything
about the pig from Trotter to tale this
family have been in the meat business
for 150 years so this man really is on
the money
in comparison with other meats porks
really good value you get some really
good cuts at really reasonable prices
and you can use everything from the tip
of the Trotter down to the cheek we can
see here we got the leg the leg is about
this region really lean really good for
things like Gammons and hams coming down
from the leg we've got the loin and
that's where the pork chops come from
when we take the bones out
you can bone and roll it and you end up
with a really nice easy to cook cylinder
of meats really easy to carve carve like
a loaf of bread coming away from the
loin we've got the belly you can see
with belly is made up of fatty parts and
meaty parts don't be scared of the
amount of fat that's on it you need that
fat to give give the flavors coming
through also make sure you can possibly
buy it with the skin on the skin will
crisp it up nicely give you good
crackling also add flavor into the fats
lower down from the belly's we've got
the shoulders really the shoulders are a
great meat they're slightly fatter than
the rest of the animal you can see with
this pork shoulder that amount of
marbling you're getting the muscles the
interior marbling make sure you look for
the marbling it's essential for the
flavor and it's going to make a really
good eating experience with a pig there
really is nothing to waste the trust is
even a really good flavor because their
tetanus qualities and the meat can be
really really flavor soon also there's
Peaks cheeks which obviously require a
little bit more cooking because they use
they gets but the flavors you are gonna
get are gonna be completely different to
any other part of a pig pork is an
incredibly versatile meat they say the
only part you can't eat is the oink
here's my guide to getting the best out
of familiar cuts
smoked or unsmoked bacon is not just for
breakfast
it's brilliant transforming salads gives
a real depth of flavor to stews and is
delicious in quick and easy pasta dishes
the leg joint best known for ham also
makes an inexpensive delicious Sunday
roast and his great sir with Pease
pudding and the tenderloin fill it
incredibly lean healthy and faster cook
you can stuff it cut it into a scallops
or strips that are perfect for Asian
stir fries
a calm kitchen is an efficient and
effective kitchen the less stressed you
are the better the food you'll produce
so whenever you can get ahead with your
cooking here are three of my favorite
recipes that we made beforehand whose
flavor improves over time
[Music]
first up Moroccan lamb with sweet potato
and raisin this super simple hassle-free
recipe is cooked all in one pot start by
browning chunks of lamb in hot olive oil
color and remove then fried onions
seasoned add chopped garlic ground
ginger and coriander a teaspoon of whole
cumin seeds paprika and fennel seeds
a cinnamon stick bay leaf and delicate
strands of saffron then fry to release
all the aromatic flavors next add tomato
puree chunks of sweet potato and the
juicy Brown lamp
for a sweet note add plump raisins then
cover a stock and simply leave to simmer
for a couple of hours delicious eaten
straight away but over time the flavors
will develop and improve when you're
ready to serve simply finish with fresh
parsley
minimal preparation and ready when you
want it fantastic Moroccan lamb with
sweet potato and raisin my next super
simple dish that just gets better and
better with time is chili chicken with
ginger and coriander
start by chopping chicken thighs into
pieces now on with the marinade chopped
garlic ginger red chili
and lemon juice
in a pan toast coriander and cumin seeds
to release their flavors grind and add
to the chicken
[Music]
then pour over plain yogurt add turmeric
and season mix and leave to marinate
from 2 hours to overnight next fry
chopped onions in olive oil then add
chopped garlic and ginger ground
coriander Gamera Sala and turmeric
tomato puree and butter
next add the marinated chicken and all
the remaining marinade and cook until
tender finally top with coriander
marinated for flavor and cooked in 20
minutes
chili chicken with ginger and coriander
a simple stress-free wander having a
delicious sauce on hand to serve with
simply cooked fish or meat is a
brilliant stress buster
my final recipe is sweet pepper sauce
with grilled prawns
[Music]
for the sauce in hot olive oil fight
chopped garlic and diced bread then put
them in a blender add chopped tomatoes
bliss the skin of red peppers under a
hot grill intensifying the flavor links
to call then they're easy to peel chop
and add blitz add smoked paprika chili
flakes and roughly chopped almonds a
squeeze of lemon and a dash of sherry
vinegar season blitz again and add olive
oil
this source keeps really well in the
fridge and will intensify in flavor
[Music]
I love it with simple king prawns just
an olive oil ain't winner for two
minutes on each side
[Music]
sweet pepper sauce with grilled prawns
simply delicious made in advance ready
when you want them three stunning simple
recipes that take the stress out of the
kitchen beautiful five more of my 100
tips to make your home cooking easier
kicking off with how to skin and debone
a fish
the hassle-free way this is basically a
fileted side of salmon it's been taken
off the bone and now skin off pick up
your knife a really nice broad flexible
Finity knife little sharpen lift up the
base of the tail and then just Nick a
little bit at the end there twist the
knife almost as if it's horizontally
underneath the salmon pull the skin and
you slice the salmon underneath and let
the knife do the work now get your skin
flip it back over and check your not
leaving too much salmon on top of the
skin pull it back nice and slowly get
the skin wrap it around your fingers
pull salmon towards you and then just
all the way through lay that down one
nicely skinned salmon just like a
perfect snake skin
get your knife I just run the knife down
and then with a pair of tweezers these
are fish tweezers but you can use normal
tweezers look for the head up and pull
and with a skin being removed from
underneath the salmon the pin bones come
out a lot easier the pin bones only go
to just basically halfway along the fill
it
one nice fill it of salmon beautiful
there's still plenty of flavor in the
trimmings from a fileted fish my tip is
don't waste those fish bones add to
water wine a bay leaf and some chopped
veg to make it simple but versatile fish
stock at home the perfect base for a
delicious fish soup
a great tip for intensely flavored
stress-free veg is to steam them in
their own juices simply add to a pan
with a knob of butter and seasoning then
cook on a low heat with a lid on to lock
in the moisture crispy roast potatoes
you can depend on my tip is to pop all
them leave them to steam dry then
sprinkle them with semolina or flour and
give them a good roughing up this
ensures they go really crispy in the
oven
a great tip for brownie meat or fish is
to drive the kitchen roll before you
cook it then you'll get a much better
color too much moisture makes the meat
steamed instead of sear and you'll lose
that rich brown crust by the one I got
on those sticky pork ribs
another secret to taking the stress out
of cooking is to anticipate the really
busy times when you'll need things to
hand they're already made my next recipe
can be kept on tap in the fridge for
weeks on end and it's guaranteed to
liven up any quick meal spicy chutney
with chutney standing behind the fridge
you can always add that special little
touch to a simple supper prove that
thinking ahead always pays off pan on
start toasting those spices to keep the
pan nice and low cumin very aromatic
very fragrant and someone's like a live
spice next
and I think coriander seeds coriander in
now you gotta get a bit of heat in the
chutney mustard seeds or smaller than
coriander seeds are so much more
powerful mustard seeds in now curry
leaves they don't actually smell much
dry but the flavor they give off is
extraordinary
coli's in waiting for me to burn them
otherwise you'll have that bitter taste
across the chutney keep your gas nice
and load the secret is sort of toasting
them so releases that oil and
intensifies the spice touch of salt and
then cup a smooth powerful chillies keep
them whole no one's gonna eat them but
it gives that real nice burst of heat
now let them toast gently there what
other chop the onion we're gonna grate
it why because it sort of breaks down or
any nice puree in the chutney when you
grate it hold the root in the palm of
your hand and just push
nice long straight one of those nice
long shards look everyone's got a nice
sort of onion puree but it's nice and
clear a touch of olive oil spices nicely
toasted onions in
[Music]
three nice cloves of garlic the crystal
play it nice and flat and just slice the
garlic nice thin slices garlic in
taking your time to get the owners
caramelized beautifully will really reap
rewards in the long run tamarind paste
the sugar in with the sugar first to be
nice tablespoons of sugar that will give
a really nice syrup effect it sort of
nice rich syrupy texture to the chung
tamarind paste you can get tamarind
paste in most delis and the big
supermarkets it's really nice Fignon
asian but it gives that tartness to
chutney and it's sort of rich sugary
spicy
next in with my coconut at four nice
tablespoons that will give a nice body
and a really nice texture to the channel
cut that coconut out and now and the
carrot grated the carrot just gives the
chutney nice sort of punish but also
helps to sort of cool down the spiced
carrot in the water comes out the carrot
flavors the chutney beautifully but
gives that nice sort of vibrant bright
color to it as well and grating it
almost sort of it cooks instantly but I
want a bit of texture through here turn
down the gas and just let that simmer
for five minutes
if the carrots arm that moist and juicy
then cover tablespoons of water in there
to help it along now just five minutes
just as those carrots they'll go nice
and soft don't overcook them you want
that nice texture in there slightly
spicy it slightly sweet gas off keep
those chilies in there for that it's
beautiful
nice and gooey delicious and ready to go
in his jaw as that sits in the fridge
just gets better and better and better I
love to eat this chutney with cold meats
or even cold fish
but with ham it's amazing
it's a really nice way of lighting up
the ham just sort of roll it up
get a nice spoon of chutney I mean it
looks fantastic
chutney onto the plate and serve and
that is a nice little gem in the fridge
that is worth prepping in advance for
follow my ultimate cookery course
crammed with key lessons top tips and
100 recipes to stake your life on and
you'll literally be cooking yourself
into a better chef
many of these amazing recipes are on my
app please check out the App Store for
details go on get cooking